# PhaseGrass_publication

Codes used for evaluation and comparison analyses in PhaseGrass publication

Folder assembly_HEN17 contains scripts used to assemble HEN17 in this work, the red clover genotype published by Bickhart et al., DOI: 10.46471/gigabyte.42

Folder assembly_quality_check contains codes used to evaluate the assembly quality, corresponding to Table 1, 2, Fig. 3c, 3c, Supplementary Fig. 2 

Folder chromosome_structure_correctness contains codes used to evaluate the correctness of pseudo-chromosome structure by whole genome alignment to Kyuss v2.0 (reference), corresponding to Extendended Data Fig. 2c, 4c

Folder compare_untig_partition_between_ont_hifi contains codes to compare unitig partition results between unitigs generated by ONT-Hi-C and PacBio HiFi-HiC, corresponding to Extended Data Fig. 4b

Folder evaluate_haplotype_with_genetic_linkage_map contains codes comparing haplotypes of Sikem generated by PhaseGrass with haplotypes from a genetic linkage map of Sikem, corresponding to Extended Data Fig. 5

Folder map_rep_norep_seq_to_haplome contains codes used to map rep and norep seqs to haplomes, corresponding to Fig. 4, Extended Data Fig. 6

Folder phasing_quality_evaluation_DH647 contains codes used to evaluate phasing results of DH647, corresponding to Fig. 2a

Folder phasing_quality_evaluation_Sikem contains codes used to evaluate phasing results of Sikem, corresponding to Fig. 3a

Folder read_unitig_partition_comparison contains codes used to visualize the read and unitig partition results between different methods, corresponding to Fig. 2b, 3b
